report.md, before:

# Project 3

## about

On this project Tobias Sletvold Eilertsen(tei024) and Ingrid Liabakk Eriksen(ier008) worked together. We split the work 50/50.

## Design choices:

Folder structure:

    Input data: /data/

    Python files: /src/

    Main file: /src/main.py

## summary

This project is to create a machine learning model for classifying hand-written digits.

## Technical report

### preprocessing steps

- normalizing

### algorithms

- candidate algorithms were ... based on sklearns documentation.
- the classifiers hyperparameters were either default or set by grid search. We chose the most important or impactful paramterers for the grid search

### performance measure

we measured accuracy in percentage of correct predictions, because a prediction is either right or wrong and the amount of diviation from correct is not important.

### model selection scheme

- we selected models based on the sklearn GridSearchCV class, that both does a grid search over the hyperparameters and does the default 5-fold cross validation to find the best model and hyperparameters.

### chosen model

- random forest
- k-neigbors
- linear svc 
- bagging 

### expected performance

We have a ... percent accuraccy on the test data, and we would expect that on unseen data, given that the input pictures are similar in quality, resolution, angle etc. as the pcitures we have used for training.

### overfitting

- Test set is kept away from model until final evaluation

- Cross validation is used to train on some data, and validate on different data.

### possible improvements

Commit message:

working classifier, and project cleanup

report.md, after:

# Project 3

## about

On this project Tobias Sletvold Eilertsen(tei024) and Ingrid Liabakk Eriksen(ier008) worked together. We split the work 50/50.

## Design choices:

Folder structure:

    Input data: /data/

    Python files: /src/

    Main file: /src/main.py

most relevant code is in main.py.

## summary

This project is to create a machine learning model for classifying hand-written digits.

## Technical report

### preprocessing steps

- normalizing

### algorithms

- candidate algorithms were RandomForestClassifier, Linear support Vector classifier and Multi-layer Perceptron classifier. Models were selected based on sklearns documentation.
- the classifiers hyperparameters were either default or set by grid search. We chose the most important or impactful paramterers for the grid search

### performance measure

we measured accuracy in percentage of correct predictions, because a prediction is either right or wrong and the amount of diviation from correct is not important.

### model selection scheme

- we selected models based on the sklearn GridSearchCV class, that both does a grid search over the hyperparameters and does the default 5-fold cross validation to find the best model and hyperparameters.

### chosen model

Our chosen model is Multi-layer Perceptron classifier, because it gave the highest cross validation score.
How it works: 

### expected performance

We have a 97,9 percent accuraccy on the test data, and we would expect that on unseen data, given that the input pictures are similar in quality, resolution, angle etc. as the pcitures we have used for training.

### overfitting

- Test set is kept away from model until final evaluation

- Cross validation is used to train on some data, and validate on different data.

### possible improvements
